Can you exception an email so
an email them pointing to itself
>> No because there is, I think you can,
I want to say you can't do that but
the reality is is that I don't believe you
can do that so let's just try it out and
so I'm gonna go bar with a foo.
Yeah you cannot pick as it has this
whole problem where how big is
the underlying type well it has to
be as big as its biggest member.
So if it has anyone here
worked with C unions?
C unions effectively, if you have
something that's eight bits long, and
something that's 64 bits long, it always
has to take up 64 bits in memory,
because it does not know
how big it's going to be.
Is it gonna be eight or is it gonna be 64?
Well, this thing has to do the same thing,
so if you have an enum that has a type
bar that has a subtype foo,
well, what can foo contain?
Well, foo can be a bar that contains
itself that contains another version of
itself or what can that be?
So how big is that thing,
well it's obviously infinitely big so
cannot create this.
That's what I thought was gonna happen but
I just wanted to make sure
just in case I was wrong.
I've been wrong before and
I know [LAUGH] It happens.
All right any other questions?
This feels a bit confusing, right?
This feels like a little bit
overwhelming I assume it does,
that's because you're not doing anything,
right?
Or any of you programming doing stuff, no,
it's not setting in right it's not setting
into your heart I just wanted to
cover these things so you see them.
So when we actually do them,
it becomes a lot easier to go okay,
yeah, there's options.
Okay, I remember at least remember
hearing these words, let's see it.
>> So I can think of match as
kind of a switch statement.
>> Match is a switch statement that's
just a little bit more aggressive, right?
A switch statement usually,
which in traditionally a switch
statement only contains constants,
because it's some sort of offset.
That's why like in the JVM,
if you run a switch statement,
it consumes a finite amount of bytecode.
Like if you actually measure how many byte
codes are executed no matter how many
match statements you have, it only
executes the same amount of bytecode.
And that's because it's not doing any
processing, it's just doing like a jump,
it's like the same cost as an F
cuz it's kind of pre computed in.
I think with JavaScript you can be
a little bit more loosey goosey,
I think you can have variables in there.
I can't remember I don't think,
I want to say you can't but
I don't know JavaScript, crazy.
Whereas match statements,
they only, they work on types, so
you're kind of typing
off what's inside there.
And so that's kind of different, so
that means you still get that really fast
jumping cuz every enum is stored with
what is called the discriminator.
So it knows its type in memory, so
when it does this nice match statement,
it doesn't have to do this really complex
breaking down, very expensive operation.
It's just like, I'm third offset in,
this thing has a subtype this, okay,
I'm fourth offset in, right?
So it can go pretty fast.
>> [INAUDIBLE] I noticed
the map you didn't have
to reference, right [INAUDIBLE]
>> Yes.
>> But for
the filter you do have to reference.
>> Exactly, so think about this,
I wish JavaScript was a little bit better
with this, but if you think
about it when you are mapping,
you are taking a value and
you are converting into a new value.
Now with Rust what happens if I hand
you the value, do I own it anymore?
No, you have the value but your
responsibility in the map is to give me
a new value at that point,
so that's how Rust does it.
Whereas a filter, I'm saying,
do you even wanna keep this value?
That means I must retain it but
you tell me a yes or no and so
that's why filter has a reference and
map will not have a reference.
So if you're doing say,
there's there's ways to do iterators or
we'll just do something really quickly in
let's see I'll mark this do you want to.
Those there we go, so if I do this, you'll
notice that the type is a char, right?
Because I'm creating an iterator but
if I do this,
the type it's going to
say you can't do that.
But it's going to be a we'll
deal with another one but
you can do things in which I do this.
No, that'd be sweet thing,
either way you'll be able to do maps
over references versus
maps consuming the value.
And so there's this concept called
iterator or dot iterator, so on a vector.
If I go Let a = a veck, this is probably
a better example anyways, I can call it or
on it, and this creates an iterator,
but I can also call into iterator.
Now this returns to different values
in Iter Hanzi references to itself
where as a into iterator converts
your vector into an iterator and
now you cannot reference that vector
anymore because you've handed
off the value and
it's handed you back an iterator.
And so it converts the values, so if you
do an iter, and then you do a filter,
obviously, that is a find,
a filter, and let's just go x.
Now let's just give this a quick type,
i32, you'll notice that
since I did an iterator, remember,
this is a reference to your items.
That means it's going to be a reference
to your referenced items is my guess and
as you can see it's a reference,
reference, right?
That makes sense once you kind of
understand the outer concept which is
just, when you do an iterator,
it's referencing all of your items.
If you do a filter it always references
whatever items are being done via
the iterator.
Because the filter doesn't have
the context to know, it's fine for
me to hand you back this reference
because I know it's right,
it just it just operates on,
you know, types.
So, of course,
then there's more to it but all right,
>> So mute of value is the owner, correct?
>> Well, the owner is the thing
that's not a reference, so
a owns the vector right here, right?
A owns that right there,
A owns the vector,
I can hand out references to that vector
I can hand out mutable references
to that vector if A is mutable itself, but
I cannot have two owners of that value.
Hence the reason why when we did this,
the value of a gets moved
to be you can no longer refer to
a anymore within your program.
That seems very trivial and
almost annoying but
it's actually quite fantastic as time
goes on and the funny part is is that
I do this contest all the time
on my stream which is first try.
Can I build something first try?
And with TypeScript, I'm about a 20%
success rate, with Rust I'm a 75%
success rate despite writing more code and
I'd argue it's definitely more complex.
I just feel I get it right more often,
like the pit of success is just easier
to fall into despite it being harder.
And how I kind of like to think
about it my head is in people
because you get this all the time.
Well, developer ergonomics type scripts so
much faster my argument is okay, let's say
you had the run a lap on the track,
Typescript runs at 10 miles an hour.
Rust runs at seven and
a half miles an hour, well if,
you get it wrong you're running
another lap with TypeScript, right?
So yeah, I may not finish as fast but
I often don't have to run that second lap,
.that call costs a lot more
ultimately in the end.
And that's kind of one of the reasons why
I've been enjoying using this language for
tooling for various things.
I've even played around
with it on one with wasum,
it's super outrageously
radical with wasum so
Rust has this thing called macros,
I just want to find the syntax.
Macros are usually considered the devil
and I totally am on board with
it being the devil but
starter templates examples, there we go.
Edit this page, awesome.
That's exactly what you wanted to see.
And so let's just do, look at that
game of life, what do we want to do?
Simple SSR to do MVC, why not?
That seems pretty reasonable, let's just
look at does this have some HTML in it?
HTML, all right, look at this,
does that look like React?
Yeah, pretty much you're doing very, very
similar things as you would do in React.
So Rust has a super powerful macro system
and people make the coolest stuff.
You'll see it we'll be using a macro or
two coming up and so
you have things that look just like
something you're already familiar with and
even has hooks and everything else, right?
It has a good state all that so
you can get these pretty fun concepts
because of how powerful rust can be.
Now I personally don't write any macros
because I've never not shot myself in
the foot but I do know they're useful.
I do know that you can do things of them,
I just always end up
doing the wrong thing.
It seems like-
>> Will two references to the same
constant number in Rust be equal?
>> Yes, I wanna say yes, so you're
saying like this alright, B equals 5,
C equals A reference to B,
D equals A reference to B if C equals D.
First off there are types the same, right?
And a reference to an I 32 and
a reference to an I 32,
You can always have the same types.
Now if I did this,
they wouldn't be the same because
what is the problem you you have,
of course D is a double reference.
C is a singular reference,
now I can strip one of the references
off of D by doing this.
There you go, or I can add a reference to
C by doing that and so it's just reference
playing now, you don't really deal with
pointers in Rust, there's just references.
I know that's like such a subtle
difference but the difference with
the pointer is that you can kind of move
a pointer around whereas with a reference.
I can't really move a reference around
I either dereference the thing or
reference it, right?
There, eight pointers you
can plus one to it and
boom you've just moved
the width of the item.
And now you're often magical stack
smashing land which by the way I've
smashed many, a stack in my day
pointer arithmetic does take place but
it's in unsafe mode.
I believe you can do it in unsafe mode so
if you get really adventurous which I've
still not even used on safe mode once.
I've never needed to use it I believe
you can do pointer arithmetic but
then you leave the bounds of safety
the strong Rust won't hold you at night
telling you everything will be okay,
you're off doing.
Who knows what and it's dangerous-